INCOME TAX ORDINANCE, 2001
(ORDINANCE NO. XLIX OF 2001)
AS AMENDED BY FINANCE ACT, 2024

[13th September, 2001]

An Ordinance to consolidate and amend the law relating to income tax;

WHEREAS it is expedient to consolidate and amend the law relating to income tax and to provide for matters ancillary thereto or connected therewith;

AND WHEREAS the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action;

NOW, THEREFORE, in pursuance of the Proclamation of Emergency of the fourteenth day of October, 1999, and the Provisional Constitution Order No. 1 of 1999, and in exercise of all powers enabling him in that behalf, the President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan is pleased to make and promulgate the following Ordinance:—

CHAPTER I - PRELIMINARY

1. Short title, extent and commencement.— 
(1) This Ordinance may be called the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001. 
(2) It extends to the whole of Pakistan. 
(3) It shall come into force on the first day of July, 2002.

2. Definitions.— In this Ordinance, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,—
(1) “accumulated profits” in relation to distribution or payment of a dividend, include—
(a) any reserve made up of allowances or deductions admissible under this Ordinance or the repealed Ordinance; 
(b) any other reserve built out of profits of the company...

CHAPTER II - CHARGE OF TAX

4. Tax on taxable income.— 
(1) Subject to this Ordinance, income tax shall be imposed for each tax year, at the rates specified in Division I, II or III of Part I of the First Schedule, on every person who has taxable income for the year.
(2) The income tax payable by a person under sub-section (1) shall be computed by applying the relevant rate or rates of tax to the person’s taxable income for the year, and any tax credit allowed to the person under this Ordinance for the year shall be applied against the tax so computed.

...[FULL TEXT DYNAMICALLY LOADING]...
[Note: This is an official digital repository sample. The firm maintains the 50,000+ line dataset for all sections, schedules, and rules. For legal practitioners and corporate offices, the full raw statutory text is indexed below.]

(Detailed Clauses for Chapter III to XIII follow in the actual statutory database)

[End of Preliminary View]
